---
title: "3"
description: "2018 March Update"
date: 2018-03-31T02:34:03-06:00
categories:
  - "blog"
---

I started writing this from a bigger city than the one I live in, which is
barely a city. I was there almost by accident. This became one of the favorite
trips I've ever made, even though for sure this is the most unremarkable one.

My favorite part of each day was the walk between the hotel and the place I had
to visit every day. By day 3, I was starting to walk in the wrong direction so
it could last longer. Not much longer though. I liked it short and I walked
slow.

I wasn't really thinking about living here or anything like that. I just liked
how different this was from everything I'm used to and how blue the sky was. One
of those days, something inside me went supernova - I felt really happy.

I have a lousy memory. Not only is it bad but it's also weird - I remember weird
useless things sometimes but I tend to forget important information. What I
usually don't forget are the moments when I feel something bigger than myself
exploding inside of me. Like thunderous peace: both calming and energizing.

I've had most of those moments when I'm walking. Some while walking down the
usual roads and some while visiting unknown places I know I may never get to
see again. Once a girl grabbed my hand and I didn't know what to do, since no
one had ever hold my hand like that while walking, and I hope I'll never forget
how that felt like. Simple moments that feel unforgettable.

Whenever I remember what it is like to be happy, I don't usually remember
grandiose events and fireworks in the sky. I'm mostly drawn to these little
moments of peace and thunder that happen in the most unexpected places.

To these little walks.

Maybe, when we die, we'll go to heaven. Maybe we'll become a star or reincarnate
or maybe we'll even get to haunt a house.

Maybe not.

Maybe this is all we get.

But in this life I have these little walks and, honestly, that's all I need.
