---
title: "5"
description: "2018 May Update"
date: 2018-06-02T02:34:03-06:00
categories:
  - "blog"
---

I saw [The Flatliners](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/The_Flatliners) play live
last night and, in the song [Monumental](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JskXp9Be-dM),
Chris Cresswell sang about "the songs that got (him) this far into (his) own
head".

It kinda got me thinking about so many of the songs that have helped me get to
this point in my life, which (even if life it's every bit as hard as before)
it's the best I've ever had.

About this list: This doesn't have a particular order other that what I thought
would sound best put together. I only included songs that helped me through
tough times so, even when I don't relate to them in the present, they still help
me realize how far I've [pedaled](https://www.vlvrd.me/blog/1/).

Here's the [playlist](https://open.spotify.com/user/vlvrdv/playlist/2gXZCrHqBId5NaMipa81Xd),
in case you want to sing along.

**Edit:** Here's the full playlist, in case you want to listen to it while
reading.

{{< spotify vlvrdv 2gXZCrHqBId5NaMipa81Xd >}}

Eulogy - The Flatliners
=======================

```
I feel I'm awake today with this memory that was once misplaced
And I never thought I'd live to see this overpouring sadness
```

The death of one of my grandfathers was one of the most difficult moments in my
life. I think of him each time I hear this song.

Nightlife - Off With Their Heads
================================

```
Don’t wanna be like this, anxious and angry or hopeless and upset
All the time
```

For whatever reason, I've always felt like I need to protect others from my
anxiety and protect myself from them not understanding. This song takes me in
the other direction: trying to open up, explain (even if it seems impossible to
explain sometimes) my condition and even recognize how my anxiety really is a
mental illness.

Survive - Rise Against
======================

```
How we survive is what makes us who we are
```

A no-nonsense reminder that the way I deal with hardships is what will shape me
into a better person.

Cigarettes & Saints - The Wonder Years
======================================

```
You can't have my friends
You can't have my brothers
You can't have my friends
You can't have my brothers
You can't have my friends
You can't have my brothers
You can't have me
No, you can't have me
```

This song is part memorial to Mike Pelone, a friend of the band that died
because of an overdose, and part protest against pharmaceutical companies and
evil healthcare models that profit without being socially responsible. We're
all in this together.

Never Saw It Coming - Tigers Jaw
================================

```
Well, I played with fire
I burned it all down
Well, I've made more mistakes
Than you can count
```

When we're destroying our lives, we're also hurting someone else. While I try
not to dwell on it and I work on forgiving myself on a daily basis, I also don't
want to forget the times I hurt someone close to me.

Trusty Chords - Hot Water Music
===============================

```
An empty fate just means an even score
```

Life without trying is not life at all, and I'm alive.

Here's [Dave House](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SmXP8HVcWZc) playing this
one.

Smile - Descendents
===================

```
Toil away, and at the end of the day
You can look back on a game well played
```

The artists I've listened to the longest in this list is Descendents, and it's
weird to pick one of their newest songs for this, but it's the one that talks
about how friends have each others back and how they just want to see each other
smile. Honorable mention to Coffee Mug (Descendents) though.

Dark Days - PUP
===============

```
This winter hasn't been so rough
Oh it was cold but still, it wasn't cold enough
```

When I'm going through a rough patch I like to imagine myself singing this song
after I'm over it.

Ride The Wild Haze - Beach Slang
================================

```
Let's make the loudest sounds until we feel something
```

I had to choose between this one, Young & Alive (Beach Slang) and Hello Euphoria
(Turnover). I've felt dissociation a lot of times and, while it's scary to think
about it now, in those moments I just wanted to feel something and didn't really
care how.

(Bonus) Liver Alone - The Flatliners
===================================

Yesterday I listened to this one; I had never really paid much attention to it
since it's about alcoholism. I related to it when I figured that overcoming an
addiction it's all about breaking bad habits (to an extreme point) and that's
sort of what I've been doing too.

```
Get up, get up, get up
You've gotta drown it out and then drain the memory
Get up, get up, get up
Get up in arms over the way it could've been
Scratch your name through the surface again
I'll be with you cursing the morning
```

This is a fight statement against the downward spiral towards self destructive
behaviors. It's also an acknowledgment that it's not going to be an easy fight,
but we're not alone. And that it's ok to be frustrated sometimes and curse the
morning, but you still have to get up, get up, get up.

Also:

```
Have we become what our friends hate?
(Well, fuck 'em, in the end)
```

If your friends encourage you to throw away your life, they are probably not
your friends. Fuck 'em, in the end.

Vultures - John Mayer
=====================

```
Down to the wire
I wanted water, but
I'll walk through the fire
If this is what it takes
To take me even higher
Then I'll come through
Like I do
When the world keeps
Testing me, testing me, testing me
```

Don't give up. I won't.
