---
title: "6"
description: "2018 June Update"
date: 2018-07-11T02:34:03-06:00
categories:
  - "blog"
---

"If you can meet with triumph and disaster and treat those two impostors just
the same..."

I know this was supposed to be posted in June, but I was in the middle of an
anxiety crisis that needed my full attention. In the end it was just a crisis,
which is pretty serious by itself, but it had the potential of becoming a
meltdown. So I adapted to it and focused on getting through those days.

You may think that writing a blog like this shouldn't be that much of a problem.
It usually takes me about 30 to 60 minutes to write down my main ideas, and if
I'm still not sure what I'm talking about (I usually don't), I'll just give it
a couple of days and take another 30 minutes to wrap it all up. This month, I
had trouble to go through even the most basic parts of my daily routines. I felt
I was losing my mind over brushing my teeth. So writing this was, as ludicrous
as it may sound, a giant task for me then.

All of that is probably a topic for another month, because I'm still coming to
terms about what it means to have pure obsessive-compulsive disorder (I just
found out I have it and it's actually a scary disease), but I'm officially on
the other side of this crisis now - I'm finding my balance back in a new and
foreign state of mind (and probably in a new state of life too).

And, well, I do have some thoughts about it.

Grateful
========

Yesterday, it was my 27th birthday.

I woke up, meditated for three minutes, ate something up, 10 push ups, drove to
work, parked as far as I could just so I could squeeze a little more walking
minutes to my day and began debugging a complex Linux kernel module that I came
up with last week.

I was listening to this [album](https://open.spotify.com/album/65KwtzkJXw7oT819NFWmEP),
and in the [zone](http://dilbert.com/strip/2017-01-05). But as soon as I grabbed
some water, some air and some silence in order to continue with my work, I
[realized](https://twitter.com/vlvrdv/status/1016790926457438210) that I'm
extremely grateful for the bumpy road I've traveled to get to 27.

I'm not really sure where I see myself in 10 years. I'm not even sure of how my
life will change in the next months; I know there are a lot of them coming my
way. But I'm sure as hell I'm happy to be where I am today.

Just a couple of weeks ago I wasn't even able to understand code I had written
because of my mental health issues and, yesterday, I was coding complex stuff
again.

It's not that I thrive on working on difficult tasks, I don't really like ego
trips. It's just that it's so nice to swim through the hardships and find
yourself waiting on the other side.

You're finally realizing you're only as strong as you feel, so you work on
feeling better. It's been a great ride and I'm moving forward without rushing
myself, as I used to do.

I finally realized I'm just getting started.

Greatness takes time
====================

As far as I know (I'm just 27, not that old yet), everything that really means
something in our lives is built over time.

Just as it took me years to start feeling crippling anxiety and depression, it's
taking me some time to get over it and keep walking. No habit is built just
because you made a decision. Not even if you had a life-changing event.

That's not how our brains work.

An example: each day, I'm meditating just 3 minutes, walking just 20 minutes and
doing just 10 push ups. It's painfully simple and I know I can do a lot more
than that, but in order for them to become real habits I need to start taking
these tiny steps first. Rewiring the brain is not a sprint.

It takes a lot of work and time to improve yourself as a person. But, most of
all, it requires that you know yourself. And that's super hard, because
(especially in today's world) we're buried under massive distractions that makes
us dread those feelings of boredom and solitude. So, I'm taking small steps that
will get me there: to a place where I'm at home with myself.

It's the slowest road but it's the only one I know that's gonna take me where I
want to be. How else would I know where I want to be if I don't know myself?

It's a lifelong journey, filled with both triumph and disaster. I've learned
that if you can keep your head up high and your heart humble, your mind will
follow.
