---
title: "7"
description: "2018 July Update"
date: 2018-07-21T02:34:03-06:00
categories:
  - "blog"
---

8 I once heard someone say we are not defined by our thoughts and beliefs but by
our actions and intentions. I was younger, wasn't so worn out; I took it to
heart without really questioning it. I led almost all my life trying to do what
I thought was right, regardless of what anyone felt about anything. I made big
mistakes on the way, sure, but, when it came down to a defining moment, I always
did what I believed to be better for everyone. It's one of the few things that
used to make me proud of myself. I loved the way I always pushed through and
swam against the current just so that I could try to fix the world around me.

[//]: # (8 I was younger, wasn't so worn out)

5 You can't beat the current, though. I had so little to hang on to in myself
that I hanged on to that belief - I was doing the right thing. Believing in
nothing means you don't believe in yourself either, so every day there's a fight
inside your head and every night you wonder if your thoughts have their hands in
the wheel, too.

[//]: # (5 You can't beat the current)

3 I feel like I'm riding a bull while everyone else is riding a bike and it's
overflowingly frustrating trying to fit in while trying to feel authentic. Can I
acknowledge everyone's silent battles against their bulls without losing myself?

[//]: # (3 overflowingly frustrating fit)

2 Since my reality is so shaped by the ideas that are trapped in my mind, how
can I define myself only by my actions without feeling like I'm lying?

[//]: # (2 define myself)

1 How can I trust myself to find the way?

[//]: # (1 trust)

1 I'm really asking.

[//]: # (1 asking)

0 I have no fucking idea.

[//]: # (0)

[//]: # (The best thing about not fitting in is that you get to see a lot of)
[//]: # (different perspectives. Now, every day, I break free of the fight)
[//]: # (inside my head to choose my own path.)
