---
date: 2018-01-29T02:34:03-06:00
description: "2018 January Update"
title: "1"
---

When I was in high school, my football coach told my team that we played great
when things were going our way and that we sucked once they didn't. He told us
that everybody has bad days and that, in such moments, we must overcome the
imperfect not by pushing through but by accepting the situation and adapting.

I am Sergio
-----------

My name is Sergio Valverde. As of today, I'm 26yo and I like to think of myself
as someone different. I like outdoors and I dislike olives. When I tell a dad
joke I'm usually the only one laughing, but other than that I can get people to
laugh most of the time. Lots of music, lots of books, lots of love for food.
Can't hold on my liquor but that's fine. I studied electronic engineering and I
also became a software developer along the way; I'm also a (mostly) self-taught
guitar player, a former lecturer for the university that gave me my degree and a
football player each time I have the chance. Right now I'm learning to sing
because I believe in doing what I love, even if I suck at it at first.

And I suffer from both anxiety and depression.

Getting out of my bed
---------------------

Anxiety and depression are actually two things of which I understand very
little, so I won't dive into that today. I know how they feel like though, and
I'm starting, through therapy, to learn how to cope with them. The key here is
that I got help.

Living with unchecked, untreated mental health issues is terrible. I know that's
obvious but it's the kind of thing you have to live through to really
understand. Those illnesses invade every inch of your life in ways you don't
want them to - you start to overwork and under perform in pretty much everything
you're doing. By the time I noticed how much of my life I was giving up and how
tired I was (I bottled everything up for several years), I was in such a bad
place that it was really hard for me to bounce back up. I was able to do it with
a combination of psychotherapy, meditation, help from close friends and my own
decision of overcoming all of this and get better.

The problem is, sometimes, accepting that you're better can be the hardest step.

To keep your balance, you must keep moving
------------------------------------------

Albert Einstein quote back there. Smart cookie.

I used to think that a support system was something like training wheels.
Something to work up your confidence and make you believe that you'll be able
to ride that bike without falling. Now, I believe it's the person that's willing
to run along with you, making sure that you won't fall until you start to get
the hang of it, but here's the thing: you'll fall; we all do when we stop
playing it safe. Your support system will be there when you do to let you
know that you're strong enough to hop on again and withstand more accidents
until one day you get the hang of it. Sure, more falls will come, but you'll
already know how to find your way back up.

If you're lucky, like I am, you'll find people that's willing to run along with
you, making sure you find your way. They will also tell you, to your face, when
you're screwing yourself over without realizing it so you can start to, you
know, realize it too, but self awareness is a very elusive skill.

I think a lot of us tend to get tunnel vision and not really be conscious of
our unhealthy routine patterns. We, as humans, are so much better at
ignoring daily stressors than unexpected problems, just because the former are
expected. Which is why traffic is so awful, because you grow to expect it but
you don't really know what you're gonna get each day, but I digress.

Support systems help you break the bad cycles and keep your balance by
pushing you forward. What you've got to remember though is that you're the one
pedaling.

We can be heroes
----------------

We don't get to choose which hand we're dealt. We're only really in control of
our own decisions.

I was so tired from everything that I didn't want to accept anything that wasn't
perfect, just as I have trouble accepting that I'm not perfect.

I know perfect doesn't matter (I do, I promise), but I've been struggling to
remember that lately. But I did, which is why I began writing this in the first
place.

I've had some help, you know. The kind of help you don't really feel you deserve
when you think poorly of yourself but also the kind you probably wouldn't get if
you didn't.

The kind of help that isn't just help anymore and that reminds you that you're
not alone. That it goes both ways. That sometimes you're the hero, too.

That you have to give your best. Not to be perfect but because you owe it to
yourself. Because if you get out of bed and into your bike, you'll figure out
that the ride is awesome, even if you don't get to where you intended to.

I'm no longer waiting for things to be perfect. I'm accepting the situation;
adapting. Not pushing through but comfortably collapsing on the shores where I
washed up and picking it up from there.

I'm writing this with my back to the floor at 2 am. If you know me, you know
that means I'm pedaling.
