---
date: 2018-02-28T02:34:03-06:00
description: "2018 February Update"
title: "2"
---

Stay as still as you can. Your heart keeps beating, right? Like a clock timing
closer to dusk. Enjoy the sunset.

Taking risks
------------

It's always inspiring to read about success stories from people who preach how
you should follow your dreams and don't settle. Tom Preston-Werner wrote this a
year after [he declined a $300k paycheck](http://tom.preston-werner.com/2008/10/18/how-i-turned-down-300k.html):
'When I’m old and dying, I plan to look back on my life and say “wow, that was
an adventure,” not “wow, I sure felt safe.”'

He turned down that kind of money to take a risk and build Github, because it
was something of his own and something he believed in. And, well,
technologically cooler than the alternative, which was working on privative
software on big legacy companies.

Github is now a [2B+ company](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2015-06-15/github-said-to-seek-2-billion-valuation-in-latest-financing).
The risk payed off.

That's awesome. I hope that kind of stories makes you think 'why not me?';
that's how I feel at first. But then, maybe, if you're like most of us, you'd
probably think 'what if'. I usually don't get to hear the story of the people
who didn't make it. What were they risking?

Chasing life
------------

If you could trade lives with anybody, would you do it? If you would, you're
chasing life. You're chasing life you want to have. But what do you do when
something goes wrong?

The biggest risk I can think of is wasting time, which is why I think we hardly
hear about the people who turn down the $300k but don't get to see their Githubs
grow. But you get to decide how you enjoy your time, so maybe that wasn't
failing at all - it all depends on what you think success is.

Defining success as achieving the exact life you planned is dangerous. We all
need to learn how to adapt.

Life chasing you
----------------

Maybe you've heard that it's time for you to get a car, to get a house, to have
kids, to be grateful you're working in a serious company with serious clothes
and that somehow that commuting hell is just a tax you have to pay in order to
reach the next stable stage in your life.

Life is chasing you. Your decisions are not your own anymore, because you have
to fit in and you have to grow up and you need to settle for the life you're
supposed to have. Covering your Maslow-defined physiological and security needs
is not enough if you don't have shiny new car.

I think there's nothing wrong with following the more traditional paths in life,
unless you're going through the motions and not really realizing what you want
out of them. You may not want to risk your future but if it's not the future you
want for you anyway, why are we all so scared to follow our hearts in the first
place? We're a [generation screwed](http://highline.huffingtonpost.com/articles/en/poor-millennials/)
anyway; we might as well enjoy it.

I have a couple of older-than-me friends who I thought were better than me at
living. When I started to listen to what they were saying, I realized that no
one really knows how to live because you never know what's coming next; they
just accept that their journey is unique and you don't have to follow someone
else's if you can't or if you don't want to.

Balance
-------

When I wrote that heart ticking bit I was thinking that you're alive and you'll
die, whether you want it or not. You're not in control anyway. But, even if we
don't get to choose all of the turns, we're all strong enough to make our own
paths, even if sometimes that only means that you only get to throw the dice.

I've decided to [follow my passions](https://www.theminimalists.com/do/) and to
work my hardest for whatever is meaningful to me; to be satisfied not with the
result, but with the way I pushed myself. To listen to my heart first. To
(really, aggressively) follow my dreams and make peace with the ones that
disappear on the way. To experiment and try everything I want to try, even if
I'm not sure I'm going to like them - how else will I know if I'll like them? -
so I can get the most out of my life. To move forward.

And, hey, if I'm wrong about this, I'll try to do better next time. I usually
do and you can too, in your own terms.

Anyway, it's up to us. Either you're redefining what success means to you or you
give up trying to be successful - you're just living. Then, you're no longer
chasing life. Life won't chase you. Life just is and you're just enjoying it.
You're together, in balance and enjoying the ride.

I hope you're getting there.
