---
date: 2018-04-30T02:34:03-06:00
description: "2018 April Update"
title: "4"
---

I've always thought I don't really have a lot to say to most people, which is
probably why I can't seem to shut up when I find someone I want to talk to.

When I was growing up, I was always dead silent or hiding myself whenever I was
around someone I didn't know that well. By the time I became an adult I was much
more sociable, but I was more inclined to play with the dogs I found in parties
where I didn't know most of the attendees.

Someone told me once: "Well, you hate people, but you love dogs. You're
alright."

I don't hate people. I'm afraid of people.
------------------------------------------

I actually grew up afraid of dogs, too. When I was about four, a big dog bit me;
the dog was probably just playing though. And my grandpa nicknamed me 'Toto'
because of this giant dog named Toto that tried to attack me when I was, well,
too young to even remember that this happened. Those experiences scared me
enough to stay away from dogs for a while.

I like that name, by the way. Toto. I don't let a lot of people call me that.

I met Titina, a badass mini Schnauzer who barked at everyone, when I was 14 and
she was 3 months old. We used to play a lot and she liked sleeping with me (she
just liked sleeping but I was usually the last one to wake up in my family).

I loved her so much that I started hanging out with other dogs too. I stopped
noticing if they were big or not and, eventually, I stopped being afraid.

I realized dogs are also scared sometimes.
------------------------------------------

Turi came into my family because he was the smallest in the litter and was
almost dying. In the first days after we took him in, he was hiding from us
strangers just as I did when I was little. I saw myself in him.

But then, out of nowhere, he started to smile. And he hasn't stopped since then.
An hyperactive dog who is shy and scared sometimes, who has trust issues but
works through them and that has too much energy to handle. A guy who thinks he's
bigger than he really is. Just like me.

I also grew up afraid of the water.
-----------------------------------

Four was a defining age for me, apparently. I was playing in a pool with some
random kids and they turned my inflatable boat around by accident. Not a big
deal but, after that, I wouldn't even touch the water.

My parents forced me to go to swimming lessons when I was 6. I hated them
because they were on Saturdays and that meant missing out on football matches
and a lot of birthday parties. But, even though I never really liked them, I
made some friends there and it did improve my health, which was the whole reason
my parents took me there in the first place.

I also became a pretty good swimmer. 8 years of practicing can improve your
strokes.

I gave it up as soon as I could mostly because I wanted to play more football.
Years later, I hesitated about going back to swimming because I wasn't sure if I
had grown to like the water or if I had been brainwashed into it. By now, I go
to the pool twice a week and I'm practicing yoga because some day I want to try
freediving. I don't really care why I love the water so much anymore, so I just
swim and enjoy it. And I'm sure as hell I no longer fear it, I just don't let
swimming get in the way of the other things I care about.

I'm still afraid of people. I really am.
----------------------------------------

I'm writing this today because dogs and swimming taught me that if you endure
past what scares you, you might find things you really love. Even if you're hurt
in the process sometimes. Either way, you learn a little bit about yourself and
you carry on.

I'm still really scared of what might happen if I talk to people but I will keep
doing it because I know that otherwise I wouldn't have this weird family of
friends I have and love. Each bad experience, even the ones that really damaged
me, have taught me how to handle negative situations and even how to be more
compassionate as a person, so I'm really grateful for those as well.

I grew up scared of being alone but at some point I realized I'm scared of
people making me feel lonely. It was hard to admit it to myself but I'm scared
shitless of my closest friends. So I know it's worth it to be brave because,
thanks to them, I found meaning in my life.

They are the best part of being me, after all. I feel more like myself when I'm
around them.
